doc: Add information on Partition Manager and external devices (#9423)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/ug_bootloader_external_flash.rst

Using external flash memory partitions
######################################

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

When using MCUboot, you can store the storage partition for the secondary slot in the external flash memory, using a driver for the external flash memory that supports the following features:

* Single-byte read and write.
* Writing data from the internal flash memory to the external flash memory.

.. note::

>    The Partition Manager will only support run-time access to flash partitions defined in regions placed on placed on external flash devices that have drivers compiled in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The Partition Manager will only support run-time access to flash partitions defined in regions placed on external flash devices that have drivers compiled in.
```

>    Partition Manager cannot determine which partitions will be used at runtime, but only those that have drivers enabled; it will only include such partitions into the partition map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Partition Manager cannot determine which partitions will be used at runtime, but only those that have drivers enabled, and those are included into the partition map.
```

>    Partition Manager can not determine which partitions will be used at runtime, it can only determine which have or have not drivers enabled, so it will decide to only include into, partition map, partitions on flash devices with drivers enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Partition Manager cannot determine which partitions will be used at runtime, but only those that have drivers enabled; it will only include such partitions into the partition map.
```

   Lack of partition access will cause MCUboot to fail at run-time.

>    For more details on configuring and enabling access to external flash devices please refer to :ref:`pm_external_flash`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For more details on configuring and enabling access to external flash devices, see :ref:`pm_external_flash`.
```

> .. note::
> 
>    The Partition Manager will only support run-time access to flash partitions defined in regions placed on placed on external flash devices that have drivers compiled in.
>    Partition Manager has no way to determine whether partitions are used at run-time or not during compilation, but it will decide to not include partition into map if there is no driver enabled for it.
>    Lack of partition access will cause MCUboot to fail at run-time.
>    For more details on configuring and enabling access to external flash devices please refer to :ref:`pm_external_flash`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::

   The Partition Manager only supports runtime access to flash memory partitions defined in regions placed on external flash devices that have drivers compiled in.
   Partition Manager can not determine whether partitions are used during runtime or compilation, but it does not include partitions in the map when there are no drivers enabled for them.
   Lack of partition access causes MCUboot to fail during runtime.
   
   For more details on configuring and enabling access to external flash devices, see :ref:`pm_external_flash`.
```

Author: Still will need to fix this line

```
Partition Manager can not determine whether partitions are used during runtime or compilation, but it does not include partitions in the map when there are no drivers enabled for them.
```

as what it actually means is that partition manager configuration is used for compilation to provide partitions but it does not mean they are used, and partition manager does not know whether they are used or not. This means that we are not able to report, at compilation, that some of partitions used in code have been left out of partition map as there are no device drivers for flash they are on.

The QSPI NOR flash memory driver supports these features, and it can access the QSPI external flash memory of the nRF52840 DK and nRF5340 DK.

See the test in :file:`tests/modules/mcuboot/external_flash` for reference.
This test passes both devicetree overlay files and Kconfig fragments to the MCUboot child image through its :file:`child_image` folder.
See also :ref:`ug_multi_image_variables` for more details on how to pass configuration files to a child image.

Troubleshooting
***************

> MCUboot fails with error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MCUboot could fail, reporting the following error:
```

.. code-block:: console

   *** Booting Zephyr OS build v3.1.99-ncs1-... ***
   I: Starting bootloader
   W: Failed reading sectors; BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS=512 - too small?
   W: Cannot upgrade: not a compatible amount of sectors
   I: Bootloader chainload address offset: 0x10000
   I: Jumping to the first image slot

> Possible causes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error could depend on the following causes:
```

> A cause of this error could be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error could be caused by the following issues:
```

> This error could depend on the following causes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This error could be caused by one the following causes:
```

Author: Will shorten the sentence so that "cause" would not appear twice.

Author: Replaced with
```
A cause of this error could be:
```

>    1) External flash driver for application image partitions used by ``MCUboot`` is not enabled or incorrect Kconfig option has been given to ``DEFAULT_DRIVER_KCONFIG`` of partition manager external region definition;
>       please refer to :ref:`pm_external_flash` for details.
> 
>    2) Out-of-tree external flash driver is not selecting :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_HAS_DRIVER` therefore partitions for images on external flash are not accessible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * The external flash driver for the application image partitions used by MCUboot is not enabled or an incorrect Kconfig option has been given to the ``DEFAULT_DRIVER_KCONFIG`` of the partition manager external region definition.
      See :ref:`pm_external_flash` for details.
   * An out-of-tree external flash driver is not selecting :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_HAS_DRIVER`, resulting in partitions for images located in the external flash memory being not accessible.
```

Author: Applied.

> Compilation fails with linker error similar to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The compilation could fail with a linker error similar to following:
```

> The compilation could fail with a linker error similar to following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The compilation could fail, reporting a linker error similar to following:
```

.. code-block:: console

   undefined reference to '__device_dts_ord_<digits>

> Possible causes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error could depend on the following causes:
```

> A cause of this error could be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error could be caused by the following issues:
```

> This error could depend on the following causes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This error could be caused by one the following causes:
```

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_OVERRIDE_EXTERNAL_DRIVER_CHECK` has been used to override the driver check for the external flash driver, but no driver is actually compiled for the region.

>     Disabling the option remove partitions without device drivers from the flash map, which may cause runtime failures.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Disabling the option removes partitions without device drivers from the flash map, which may cause runtime failures.
```

>    1) :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_OVERRIDE_EXTERNAL_DRIVER_CHECK` has been used to override driver check for external flash driver, but not driver is actually compiled for the region.
>       Note that disabling the option will actually remove partitions without device drivers from flash map, which may cause run-time failures. Please refer to :ref:`pm_external_flash` for details.
> 
>    2) ``DEFAULT_DRIVER_KCONFIG`` for partition manager option is given Kconfig that does not control or indicate whether flash device driver is compiled in.
>       Please refer to :ref:`pm_external_flash` for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_OVERRIDE_EXTERNAL_DRIVER_CHECK` has been used to override the driver check for the external flash driver, but no driver is actually compiled for the region.
      Disabling the option remove partitions without device drivers from the flash map, which may cause runtime failures.
      See :ref:`pm_external_flash` for details.
   * ``DEFAULT_DRIVER_KCONFIG`` is given a Kconfig that neither controls nor indicates whether a flash device driver is compiled in.
      See :ref:`pm_external_flash` for details.
```

Author: Applied.
